Powder Diffraction at ORNL
===

Powder diffraction is a powerful and commonly used technique for characterizing the microscopic structure of materials ranging from battery materials, catalysts, to quantum materials such as superconducting and spintronic materials, and among others. There are two major branches of the powder diffraction technique. The first one (and probably the familiar one) is Bragg diffraction of which the fundamental principle is the Bragg equation infering where the diffraction pattern is supposed to spike as determined by the underlying crystallographic structure. With Bragg diffraction, the only thing of interest is the Bragg peaks and the analysis is centering around the extraction of the intensities and positions of those Bragg peaks. In practice, due to finite instrument resolution, it is unavoidable that the diffraction peaks corresponding to different Miller index will be overlapping which makes it challenging to extract the information associated with each individual composite peak. The breakthrough idea for solving this issue was proposed by Rietveld back in 1969 {cite}`rietveld`. who realized that a common profile function is shared among the diffraction peaks and such profile funtions are relevant to the characteristics of the beam being used for the diffraction experiment. As such, by constructing the profile function and convolving with the diffraction intensities, the whole diffraction pattern could be established. A nice and succint introduction about the profiling of powder diffraction can be found in Ref. {cite}`cockcroft`.

...Total scattering introduction goes here...

Neutron is one of the primary sources for conducting the powder diffraction measurement...